Thank you.
Welcome to my presentation.
Upstream collaboration and Linux distribution collaboration is that excluded.
In my case, I am representing two projects, OPMSUSE where I am a member and a representative
and then the OPM mainframe project where I am leading the Linux distribution working
group with the most important Linux distribution included who are running on the mainframe.
I am Sarah Krij and my agenda is first something about myself, how I came to this topic, then
you should receive a short introduction about mainframes and the mainframe project, what
that is and what we are providing, then why we have founded the Linux distribution working
group from that we are coming to the topic of the reason why we wanted to collaborate.
And in the last step, I want to tell how we are including upstream projects at the moment
and what we want to achieve and I want to receive a little bit feedback in the Q&A session
and how you as open source projects want to be included in such architecture specific
working groups or collaboration projects then.
About myself a little bit, I am an OPMSUSE contributor since around 10 years and I am
also a member of a release engineering team and I am responsible for the S390X architecture
and I am also a team lead for S390X at OPMSUSE. I wrote my bachelor thesis at IBM and afterwards
I became a dev consultant at Accenture. I am also allowed to contribute a little bit
to open source via my job but anyway I had this idea then to found the Linux distribution
working group and I am with that also the co-chair of this Linux distribution working
group. Mainframes perhaps not everybody knows them. That is the latest is the 16 system
on the right side that mainframes are large high performance computer systems and are
also called big endians. The architecture behind IBMC is the S390X architecture. The
S390X came at the end for the 64 bit architecture which is also included in such a system and
such systems are used for mission critical data for banking services and everything else
and you can run thousands of PMS on such a system. The open mainframe project is our
open hardware project for the mainframe and it has been funded in the year 2015 and this
project is under the hood of the Linux foundation and should have a focal point for deployments
and the usage of Linux and open source in our mainframe computing environment. Therefore
we have got multiple mainframe centric projects where I will not explain all the projects
because time is a little bit missing but we have got also a mentor program included.
Some have known before but most projects are more COS based. Therefore it is no surprise
that we have funded our Linux distribution working group inside this open mainframe project
also and besides of that we have got also a COBOY working group and a COS enablement
working group. COS is an alternative operating by IBM and a little bit commercial but IBM
is working on it to provide also open source projects for that. Here we can see a little
bit the overview of all included Linux distributions. SUSE, Red Hat and Ubuntu have joined after
the community Linux distributions with Debian, OpenSUSE and Fedora. SUSE is our sponsor of
the Linux distribution working group and when also Rocky Linux and Ima Linux have joined
for words. Our structure, Elizabeth and I, we had the idea to found this Linux distribution
working group at the IBM CDay two years ago and then we said we don't want to have it
only for one or two Linux distributions, we want to have it for all that we can achieve
better support and better collaboration between all of them. Then we said we want to have
a minimum of one representative for every Linux distribution that is required for the
input from the distribution site and yes SUSE said we want to sponsor it. Our goals are
creating a place for collaboration across Linux distributions via the open mainframe
project mailing list, the Wiki and the Tread. Then we wanted to provide a space for distributions
to request for help on their S390 exports if there is something not working or anything
else like that and then we had also the goal to ensure any and all infrastructure required
should be available for supporting reports. Therefore you can request hardware and everything
else. Dejan has got his own mainframe as an example. You can request support from the
Linux one community cloud. I have got also a slide about that included and then I said
I want to have better support from IBM to fix S390 specific bugs. We have got the distinguished
engineer Ulrich Weigen included here for that and therefore we are collaborating via the
mailing list with him and our meeting sessions then. Our collaborative process is in the
first step the problem discussions on the mailing list. If anything is happening we
can discuss the problems, we can reproduce issues sometimes in other Linux distributions,
discuss it on the mailing list and then we are forwarding issues and ideas of improvements
for IBM that will be forwarded when internally and then we have got also monthly meetings
for half an hour every month. That is more come together with a review what has happened
in the month and what are the next steps, any other problems or any other news and then
we are sharing our knowledge also in this half an hour time. This collaboration is also
a benefit for all with that upstream contributions are available for all that is lowering all
the research and development costs because we have got our point of contacts where there
is an exchange between distributions we can come faster forward and that is a benefit
for IBM and the community. Additionally we have got the same solutions for our Linux
distributions we can use the patches from Deviant, Fedora, OpenSoup, ShareIt, bring
it upstream, test it together and with that we have got also same solutions for S3.9,
specific problems. We share our knowledge between the communities equal to here we have
got one Devroom together and sharing our knowledge here that is also in our working group. Then
we are increasing a little bit also innovation we have got diverse community ideas we can
bring it together and can forward it and bring the latest technologies into our Linux distributions
and with that we are accelerating all the Linux development for S3.9.0X. From that if
we are working together I would say we can achieve more together than alone and that
is also the reason that IBM is providing the Linux one open source software community cloud
you can receive the M's on Linux one systems that is also a mainframe for Linux configuration
that is sponsored by IBM in the United States and the Linux one community cloud provides
120 days for a single open source contributors with the free access you are receiving Sless
or Ubuntu there and then we are providing also long term access for open source projects.
In our case we have got five VMs for open source available and we maintain it for our
own we have upgraded Sless to OpenSoup on that and with that we can develop also an
open source foundation. With that we are coming to the idea to include the upstream projects
it is easy to include base projects like the Linux kernel compilers like GCC or KVM because
we have got already developers at IBM who are contributing their S maintainers and they
can interact directly on our issues and back reports but there are many other projects
in Linux included not only the kernel not only tool train and everything else we are
receiving new programming languages we are using a latest databases or anything else
the Linux world is really wide. This is an example how we have done that in the GCC back
tracker we can create a back report that is arriving and then as an example IBM developer
is interacting on it and analyzing it and creates a fix. The process at GCC is upstream
back report IBM maintainers are receiving all S390X specific bugs and the maintainers
are interacting. One hint in this direction these developers are also open for joining
our Linux distribution working group for discussions but from our point of view that is not enough
because there are many other projects an example is core what I have created an issue last
month because of the S390X enablement which was not working I created on GitHub my issue
the developer tried to fix it and said I don't know how to fix it I don't know S390X specific
things I asked when should I forward it to IBM yes please I wrote my email to the mailing
list with a swag and the distinguished engineer has interacted when news directly that has
to that is the problem and it and it has been working but such a process is a little bit
longer and requires as Linux distribution maintainers in this case should we include
it as such project also with invitations to our mailing list or is this our responsibility
to forward that from the upstream project to IBM then that is a question where the reasons
for such required forwarding is that there are so many open source projects everywhere
I think it does not know all the Linux integrated software and latest technologies especially
the new ones and most IBM maintainers are only available for the base projects which
are called strategic open source projects which is a bit funny but in any way they have
got their strategic projects that maintainers are working on that and that's it if anything
new is coming in they have to find someone responsible new for that one and yes we the
Linux distribution maintainers know our requirements and what we want to include as the latest
technologies therefore we want to achieve a new connection between IBM and upstream
projects what is missing at the moment if you are interested for joining us as an upstream
project or anything else we are open for that now here's our Wiki link of the mainframe
project with the Linux distribution working group then we have got our mailing list and
our meeting sessions on soon every second Tuesday the invitations are coming via the
mailing list and now I want to use the rest of the time for discussions how do you want
to become involved into such architecture specific working groups as an upstream project
one hint there are also other collaborate distribution collaboration mailing lists
available now two weeks ago we have received an email yes one from the kernel then I have
seen this there's something for security topics yes there's also for architecture by the narrow
I believe one collaboration mailing list something like that exists already but what is your
expectation and how do you want to be included if you have got problems with architecture
specific problems have you got any wishes Ben say here nothing
yeah by the way the your consistent branding across the various sub projects that you had
on the other slide is I just want to compliment it's really nice like their way they're all
using the same palette and wait sorry I didn't mess up your slide system it seems I have
got the human TCC and everything else no no no the various things under the open mainframe
group we've lost the slides now though anyway yes I think that's super cool I love it I
love it so the distributions you had in there so I noticed you had for or in there and I
saw right hat mentioned so does that is that mean well as involved or we have got one person
for a fit or a and read it that is done here a rock okay that is one person for both and
we have for yes that is also involved if we want to give something forward to rat head
when done for a person I am for opens with available is as user has got mark post continuously
who is retiring at the moment and that is the reason that we have got two persons from
through the that the follower will receive his introduction related as 390 x where and
then we have got one person from the event perhaps I should go into our wiki page but
we are receiving a better overview bear
why does it not share it
then yeah we have got as as something about all you know distributions and with all information
about our architecture specific the mailing lists and everything else and who is responsible
for what done is listed here opens who is listed here but I am responsible for distributions
okay Linux is listed here with Luis are we and most of our guests in and then we are
have got also our meeting session aside where you are receiving overview with attending
all our meetings therefore here you can see also the debut responsible person the pack
super nuclei is when you guys have from through the responsible for s3 90x who is joining
our sessions the other it is on is the city over open source by IBM where I find is a
distinguished engineer for open source and Linux therefore these persons are mostly the
default persons joining us down is only listed for fedora because he has joints as a fedora
representative but he is also responsible for s3 90x at redhead as I default cause just
I am with a sent to us project and we sit kind of midstream between fedora and rounds
I just want to like you know should we be getting involved or is it is it enough that
we have fedora involved so I will talk to our fedora person yes my wish was as I default
to different persons because we have also separated opens with a ensue in our case
I asked multiple times at redhead can we receive an additional person yes I will forward it
and nothing has happened and then Dan said I'm also from redhead okay when you are for
both we are open to have an additional person from redheads but in general okay I will forward
it yes if we have got from every distribution one person why not
to like upstream maintainer if you if you want to support x3 90 like what will be the
best way to kind of do it so could we just document like some contact points for like
your group so like we can see we can say like if we have some some issues with supporting
the extra 90 architecture I can just I'll say if we can fix it ourselves try to to to
follow follow up with with with your working group and I guess that's our goal what we
want to provide as a first step we have got our mailing list if you have got any problems
or anything else you can write to us and we look how we can support you okay I am people
who are required are also on this mailing list and they interact closed into two hours
or something like that on the issues which are coming in and therefore that's our first
step how we want to include you you are we are also open to include you in our meeting
sessions when but that would be the first step how we can include you okay so the the
preferred I guess point of contact for you will be for them in our internal development
document it depends on which upstream project you are which one is that for example python
that is python when a python I expect there there should be also a point of contact upstream
from IBM yeah yeah but he does not they don't know the whole module things exactly that
is the problem therefore forward the issues and problems and when you are receiving the
support yeah that makes sense any further questions there's when we are perhaps two
minutes it seems the people from the next session are joining now thank you that you
have tried my presentation awesome thank you